Job Description
Minimum qualifications:

    Bachelor's degree in Statistics, Mathematics, Data Science, Engineering, Physics, Economics, or a related quantitative field.
    10 years of work experience using analytics to solve product or business problems, performing statistical analysis, and coding (e.g., Python, R, SQL) (or 8 years work experience and a Master's degree).

Preferred qualifications:

    Master's degree in Statistics, Mathematics, Data Science, Engineering, Physics, Economics, or a related quantitative field.
    12 years of work experience using analytics to solve product or business problems, performing statistical analysis, and coding (e.g., Python, R, SQL).

About the job

Help serve Google's worldwide user base of more than a billion people. Data Scientists provide quantitative support, market understanding and a strategic perspective to our partners throughout the organization. As a data-loving member of the team, you serve as an analytics expert for your partners, using numbers to help them make better decisions. You will weave stories with meaningful insight from data. You'll make critical recommendations for your fellow Googlers in Engineering and Product Management. You relish tallying up the numbers one minute and communicating your findings to a team leader the next.

We're looking for a creative data scientist to join a small, agile team developing new AI products and infrastructure. As part of this team, you will leverage your expertise to drive decision-making with data including making recommendations, measuring return on investment, and identifying new opportunities to pursue.

Applied AI builds conversational agents deployed at a large scale that achieve very meaningful results in the real world. Some examples include the customer agent built for large call center environments, to fast food ordering handled by our Food AI agent. The team is transforming how enterprises connect with customers through the power of AI. We also offer unique experiences for team members where you get to work directly with the model builders (Google DeepMind / Vertex), learn and work with brilliant AI leaders, and have access to Global 1000 customers via our existing Google Cloud relationships. The opportunity in this space is tremendous.
The US base salary range for this full-time position is $183,000-$271,000 + bonus + equity + benefits. Our salary ranges are determined by role, level, and location. Within the range, individual pay is determined by work location and additional factors, including job-related skills, experience, and relevant education or training. Your recruiter can share more about the specific salary range for your preferred location during the hiring process.
 
Please note that the compensation details listed in US role postings reflect the base salary only, and do not include bonus, equity, or benefits. Learn more about benefits at Google: https://careers.google.com/benefits/
Responsibilities

    Perform analysis utilizing relevant tools (e.g., SQL, R, Python). Provide analytical thought leadership through proactive and strategic contributions (e.g., suggests new analyses, infrastructure or experiments to drive improvements in the business).
    Own outcomes for projects by covering problem definition, metrics development, data extraction and manipulation, visualization, creation, implementation of analytical/statistical models, and presentation to stakeholders.
    Develop solutions, lead, and manage problems that may be ambiguous and lacking clear precedent by framing problems, generating hypotheses, and making recommendations from a perspective that combines both, analytical and product-specific expertise.
    Oversee the integration of cross-functional and cross-organizational project/process timelines, develop process improvements and recommendations, and help define operational goals and objectives.
    Directly or indirectly oversee the contributions of others and develop colleagues’ capabilities in the area of specialization.

Salary
$183,000-$271,000 + bonus + equity + benefits
